README.md, before:

# ResNets in Tensorflow 2.0 with Synergistic Activation Functions.

This variation from Szymon Mikler's original ResNets in Tensorflow 2.0 allows for synergistic activation functions.

---

#### Description from the original project:

Nice and tidy implementation of various neural networks for classification in tensorflow 2.0. \
Everything in one place with results matching those reported in papers.

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/gahaalt/cifar-vs-tensorflow2/blob/master/Playground.ipynb)

Requirements:
- tensorflow 2.0
- tensorflow_datasets
- tensorboard

## Implemented models (in cifar versions only):
```
★ if pretrained weights are available and ☆ if not

From "Very Deep Convolutional Network for Large-Scale Image Recognition",
     "On Correlation of Features Extracted by Deep NeuralNetworks":
    ★ VGG11
    ★ VGG13
    ★ VGG16
    ★ VGG19

From "Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition":
    ★ ResNet20
    ★ ResNet32
    ★ ResNet44
    ★ ResNet56
    ☆ ResNet110

From "Identity Mappings in Deep Residual Networks" (with preactivated layers):
    ★ ResNet110
    ★ ResNet164
    ★ ResNet1001
    
From "Wide Residual Networks":
    ☆ Wide ResNet-16-4
    ☆ Wide ResNet-40-4
    ☆ Wide ResNet-16-8
    ☆ Wide ResNet-28-10
    
Incoming in the near future:
    ☆ ResNeXt
    
★ if pretrained weights are available and ☆ if not
```
Except for them, there are general functions available which you can use to create ResNet for any dataset.

## How to get keras models:
```
# ResNet110 v1
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet110
model = cifar_resnet20('original', shortcut_type='A')

# ResNet110 v2 pretrained
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet110
model = cifar_resnet110('preactivated', load_weights=True)

# ResNet164 pretrained
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet164
model = cifar_resnet164(load_weights=True)
```
They are ready to train or test with 'fit' method.

## How to train:
- Set experiments in experiments.yaml
- Run using: python run_experiments.py
- Open logs with tensorboard

### Default training schedule:
Works well for ResNets v1 and v2
- SGD with momentum **0.9**
- for iterations **[0, 400)** LR = **0.01** (warm-up)
- for iterations **[400, 32000)** LR = **0.1**
- for iterations **[32000, 48000)** LR = **0.01**
- for iterations **[48000, 64000)** LR = **0.001**
- L2 regularization = **0.0001**

### Training ResNet110 v1 example:
```
module: 'Models.Resnets'      # .py file with models (required)
model: 'cifar_resnet110'      # function that creates model (required)
model_parameters:
    block_type: 'original'    # original for Resnet v1, preactivated for Resnet v2
    shortcut_mode: 'A'        # A or B as in Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition
train_parameters:
    logdir: 'logs'            # folder for tensorboard (required)
    run_name: 'resnet110_v1'  # name of the run in tensorboard (required)
    log_interval: 400         # how often statistics are printed and saved to tensorboard
    val_interval: 4000        # how often validation on the test set is done
skip_error_test: False        # whether to skip a quick run before beginning the actual training
```
Note that not all parameters are required.

### Training Wide ResNet-40-4 example:
```
module: 'Models.Resnets'
model: 'WRN_40_4'
model_parameters: {}
train_parameters:
    logdir: 'logs'
    run_name: 'WRN_40_4'
    log_interval: 400
    val_interval: 4000
    lr_values: [0.1, 0.02, 0.004, 0.0008]
    lr_boundaries: [24000, 48000, 64000, 80000]
    nesterov: True
```

## Comparision with results reported on CIFAR-10:

#### VGG Networks
| architecture | parameters | reported best | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| VGG11 | 9.2M | 7.81 | **7.98** |
| VGG13 | 9.4M | 6.35 | **6.17** |
| VGG16 | 14.7M | 6.49 | **6.34** |
| VGG19 | 20.0M | 6.76 | **6.72** |

#### ResNets v1
| architecture | parameters | reported best | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ResNet20 | 0.27M | 8.75 | **7.99** |
| ResNet32 | 0.46M | 7.51 | **7.40** |
| ResNet44 | 0.66M | 7.17 | **6.83** |
| ResNet56 | 0.85M | 6.97 | **6.23** |
| ResNet110 | 1.7M | 6.43 | 6.26 |

#### ResNets v2
| architecture | parameters | reported mean | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ResNet110 | 1.7M | 6.37 | **5.98** |
| ResNet164 | 1.7M | 5.46 | **5.27** |
| ResNet1001 | 10.3M | 4.92 | **5.06** |

#### Wide ResNets
| architecture | parameters | reported mean | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| WRN-16-4 | 2.7M | 5.02 | ? |
| WRN-40-4 | 8.9M | 4.53 | 4.46 |
| WRN-16-8 | 11.0M | 4.27 | ? |
| WRN-28-10 | 36.5M | 4.00 | ? |
| + dropout | 36.5M | 3.89 | ? |

### Training curves
All training logs are available in saved_logs folder. You can open it with tensorboard and compare them with yours.

### Differences:
I did my best to make the implementation identical to the original one, however there are subtle differences in the training:

- I use bigger L2 regularization for ResNets - 1e-4 instead of 5e-5
- All networks are trained on 50.000 examples, whereas some papers use only 45.000 examples
- I use warm-up iterations for all the networks, not only for ResNet-110 as in original paper

Commit message:

Explain the project's motivation
The target audience who might desire to reuse this project needs a quick introduction to the reposit. Otherwise, they won't know it's made for them, missing an opportunity to expedite the implementation phase of their work.

README.md, after:

# ResNets in Tensorflow 2.0 with Synergistic Activation Functions.

This variation from Szymon Mikler's original ResNets in Tensorflow 2.0 allows for synergistic activation functions.

This project was made to simplify the study of synergistic activation functions, the mixed usage of two or more activation functions within the same artificial neural network. This fork was created for future research on Synergistic Activation Functions to expedite the implementation phase and conduct experiments in a standardised and repeatable environment. 

Activation functions are assigned in a block-wise manner (related to ResNet blocks). It allows for two implementations of Synergistic Activation Functions in ResNets: the Duplicated Paths and the Alternated Function implementation.

---

#### Description from the original project:

Nice and tidy implementation of various neural networks for classification in tensorflow 2.0. \
Everything in one place with results matching those reported in papers.

[![Open In Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/gahaalt/cifar-vs-tensorflow2/blob/master/Playground.ipynb)

Requirements:
- tensorflow 2.0
- tensorflow_datasets
- tensorboard

## Implemented models (in cifar versions only):
```
★ if pretrained weights are available and ☆ if not

From "Very Deep Convolutional Network for Large-Scale Image Recognition",
     "On Correlation of Features Extracted by Deep NeuralNetworks":
    ★ VGG11
    ★ VGG13
    ★ VGG16
    ★ VGG19

From "Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition":
    ★ ResNet20
    ★ ResNet32
    ★ ResNet44
    ★ ResNet56
    ☆ ResNet110

From "Identity Mappings in Deep Residual Networks" (with preactivated layers):
    ★ ResNet110
    ★ ResNet164
    ★ ResNet1001
    
From "Wide Residual Networks":
    ☆ Wide ResNet-16-4
    ☆ Wide ResNet-40-4
    ☆ Wide ResNet-16-8
    ☆ Wide ResNet-28-10
    
Incoming in the near future:
    ☆ ResNeXt
    
★ if pretrained weights are available and ☆ if not
```
Except for them, there are general functions available which you can use to create ResNet for any dataset.

## How to get keras models:
```
# ResNet110 v1
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet110
model = cifar_resnet20('original', shortcut_type='A')

# ResNet110 v2 pretrained
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet110
model = cifar_resnet110('preactivated', load_weights=True)

# ResNet164 pretrained
from Models.Resnets import cifar_resnet164
model = cifar_resnet164(load_weights=True)
```
They are ready to train or test with 'fit' method.

## How to train:
- Set experiments in experiments.yaml
- Run using: python run_experiments.py
- Open logs with tensorboard

### Default training schedule:
Works well for ResNets v1 and v2
- SGD with momentum **0.9**
- for iterations **[0, 400)** LR = **0.01** (warm-up)
- for iterations **[400, 32000)** LR = **0.1**
- for iterations **[32000, 48000)** LR = **0.01**
- for iterations **[48000, 64000)** LR = **0.001**
- L2 regularization = **0.0001**

### Training ResNet110 v1 example:
```
module: 'Models.Resnets'      # .py file with models (required)
model: 'cifar_resnet110'      # function that creates model (required)
model_parameters:
    block_type: 'original'    # original for Resnet v1, preactivated for Resnet v2
    shortcut_mode: 'A'        # A or B as in Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition
train_parameters:
    logdir: 'logs'            # folder for tensorboard (required)
    run_name: 'resnet110_v1'  # name of the run in tensorboard (required)
    log_interval: 400         # how often statistics are printed and saved to tensorboard
    val_interval: 4000        # how often validation on the test set is done
skip_error_test: False        # whether to skip a quick run before beginning the actual training
```
Note that not all parameters are required.

### Training Wide ResNet-40-4 example:
```
module: 'Models.Resnets'
model: 'WRN_40_4'
model_parameters: {}
train_parameters:
    logdir: 'logs'
    run_name: 'WRN_40_4'
    log_interval: 400
    val_interval: 4000
    lr_values: [0.1, 0.02, 0.004, 0.0008]
    lr_boundaries: [24000, 48000, 64000, 80000]
    nesterov: True
```

## Comparision with results reported on CIFAR-10:

#### VGG Networks
| architecture | parameters | reported best | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| VGG11 | 9.2M | 7.81 | **7.98** |
| VGG13 | 9.4M | 6.35 | **6.17** |
| VGG16 | 14.7M | 6.49 | **6.34** |
| VGG19 | 20.0M | 6.76 | **6.72** |

#### ResNets v1
| architecture | parameters | reported best | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ResNet20 | 0.27M | 8.75 | **7.99** |
| ResNet32 | 0.46M | 7.51 | **7.40** |
| ResNet44 | 0.66M | 7.17 | **6.83** |
| ResNet56 | 0.85M | 6.97 | **6.23** |
| ResNet110 | 1.7M | 6.43 | 6.26 |

#### ResNets v2
| architecture | parameters | reported mean | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| ResNet110 | 1.7M | 6.37 | **5.98** |
| ResNet164 | 1.7M | 5.46 | **5.27** |
| ResNet1001 | 10.3M | 4.92 | **5.06** |

#### Wide ResNets
| architecture | parameters | reported mean | this repository |
| ---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| WRN-16-4 | 2.7M | 5.02 | ? |
| WRN-40-4 | 8.9M | 4.53 | 4.46 |
| WRN-16-8 | 11.0M | 4.27 | ? |
| WRN-28-10 | 36.5M | 4.00 | ? |
| + dropout | 36.5M | 3.89 | ? |

### Training curves
All training logs are available in saved_logs folder. You can open it with tensorboard and compare them with yours.

### Differences:
I did my best to make the implementation identical to the original one, however there are subtle differences in the training:

- I use bigger L2 regularization for ResNets - 1e-4 instead of 5e-5
- All networks are trained on 50.000 examples, whereas some papers use only 45.000 examples
- I use warm-up iterations for all the networks, not only for ResNet-110 as in original paper
